Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to finish off this section by talking about functions
and then right after that we'll have some exercises for you.
Now creating clean repeatable code is a key part of becoming an effective programmer.
Functions allow us to create blocks of code that can be easily executed many times without needing to
constantly rewrite the entire block of code over and over again.
Basically if you have a chunk of code that you intend on reusing more than once it probably makes sense
to assign it to a function that we just do a simple function call instead of writing all that code over
and over again.
So let's see the actual syntax of a Python function.
We start off with the DPF key word that basically tells Python that what you're about to write is the
name of the function.
Then you have the name of your function which you can call whatever you want and you'd start with name
of function here with underscores.
Keep in mind by convention names of functions should be lower case than we have open and closed parentheses
a colon and then a block of code.
Right below that block of code you could optionally have a documentation string and let's separate out
by two sets of triple quotes and that just explains the function.
In case you want someone else to be able to view your documentation string and then you'll see we have
something like.
PRINT Hello as the actual code to be executed.
So in your actual Python script or at the command line if you were to call name a function over here
at the bottom in purple and then open close princes when you run that you would get back.
Hello.
So is the simplest function possible basically just printing something out for you.
Now often you're going to want your functions to accept parameters or arguments.
Here we want to accept a name parameter and then we're going to say hello plus that name essentially
concatenate that name to Hello.
So what this actually looks like when you execute it is a name a function and you passing in the string
Jose and the output there is then.
Hello Jose.
Just concatenating Hello whatever name was provided and notice here the name variable is something you
could choose yourself just like you could choose a temporary variable.
When using for loops.
Now typically we're not just printing things with functions.
Instead we're going to be using the return keyword to send back the result of the function instead of
just printing it out.
Return allows us to assign the output of the function to a new variable.
So here we have another really simple function.
It's called DFA.
And then we say add underscore function.
So this functions don't add function and it takes two parameters.
Number one and number two.
So it expects these to be numbers and then it's going to return number one plus num to notice a difference
here.
It's not printing the results.
Instead it's returning the results.
That way you can actually save these results to a variable.
So I can say the result is equal to add underscore function one comma to and then you can print that
result and you get back the number three OK let's explore more examples of using functions by heading
over to the Adam text editor.
Let's get started by going over the basic syntax of a Python function.
We start by using the DFA keyword and you notice there is actually autocomplete here.
So you could hit enter and it will autocomplete this function for you but right now I want to go through
each of these pieces one by one.
So you have the DFI keyword and then you can provide the name of your function.
So this will typically be lowercase and use snake casing.
For example we'll say something like.
Reports underscore person then you're going to have open and close parentheses.
And later I'll show you how you can add arguments that this right now will assume no arguments for this
function.
Then you say colon.
And then here you're going to actually execute a block of code every time this report underscore person
function is called.
So here I'm just going to say print reporting person.
Now let's actually run this function.
So over here notice in the station I'm already outside of this function and the say report person open
and close print sees to actually run them.
So get noticed in the station.
This is the function that self report person is now outside of the.
Now I'm going to run this code and as I expand this I get back reporting person as my output.
Now what happens if I forget these parentheses.
And I've run this I don't get any output.
That's because they actually execute the report person function.
You're going to need those open and close parentheses.
So keep that in mind as you're working with Python and functions OK.
So right now our argument or excuse me our function is pretty simple.
It's not accepting any arguments.
So if we want to accept arguments we just need to give it an argument name of our choosing such as name
and then we need to do something with it here.
So let's say instead of reporting person now we're going to say reporting and I'm going to concatenate
this with name.
So what happens if I try running report person again with no additional arguments I'm going to get an
error and the error says hey report person is missing.
One required positional argument called name which is basically Python trying to tell you Hey you forgot
to provide this argument that this function is expecting.
So let's provide it one will say reporting Cindy will save that.
Run this again and now it says reporting Cindy.
So the function did is it took in your argument for name and then it went ahead and said print's reporting
and it concatenated that name that you provided with reporting.
Now let's imagine that sometimes you want your user to have some sort of default argument value.
That's actually quite easy.
You can just say name is equal to and then whatever default argument you want.
So maybe you want blank to be the default.
So I'll save that.
And now notice what happens if I provide Sindy the nothing changes.
I still see reporting Sindee but for some reason I don't provide that argument.
Now I no longer get an error.
Instead I go to the default which is reporting blank.
So if you ever want to have a default value for your argument you can just define that default right
here in the actual function definition.
You'll say report function the name of your argument as equal to and then whatever the default value
launches.
And keep in mind this parameter or argument name it can really be up to you.
So just to make that really clear I could say Jeli is equal to blank.
And instead of saying plus name I can just say.
Plus Jeli and Soilwork the exact same way.
Reporting blank.
So these parameter names are totally up to you just like when they were learning about four loops and
you could choose any parameter name there.
Now something I really want to make clear is so far we've just been printing out stuff when we call
our functions.
And typically that's not what we're going to be doing.
Instead we're going to be returning variables back.
So I going to delete all of this and create a new function we're going to say call this function add
some and I'm going to take someone to and then right now I'm going to print one plus two.
So that means if I were to call add on two and four I should see six pop out at my command line and
there it is.
That's adding two plus four.
OK.
So let's say I wanted to save this result for later and use it somewhere or some code for example.
I want to do the following.
I would say result is equal to add.
And then later on I wanted to print results plus 10.
So this is a mistake and something Beginners often do they just use prints inside of the functions and
then try to save the result of a print.
But that's actually not going to work.
So let's run this and see what happens.
So notice we get a traceback.
First off I was able to get that initial 6 out.
So I did print out two plus four online for one actually called add underscore what's not working is
me saving this result because this result is actually a nun because print isn't returning anything it's
just shooting something out to the command line.
So you can see it.
So when I scroll down here I may view my whole traceback which is just the error.
It says Hey on line 6 on print's result plus 10.
So right here.
Print result plus then there's an unsupported operation plus for none type an integer because results
right here.
That's actually none.
In fact we can prove it to ourselves by deleting plus 10 saving that run this again and I see none.
So notice again what's happening here.
Print isn't returning anything.
You can't actually save the result of some sort of Printz function.
So what do we do if we actually want to use this result later on in our code which is typically the
way your Python programs are going to work.
In that case we need to use the return keyword so we use the return keyword.
And this is going to allow us to actually save whatever this function does.
As a result.
So now instead of printing out the numbers Ondoy to return that.
So going to say add 2 and 4.
Save that as a result and then print that result.
But let's see what happens if I don't print the result first.
So I run this and notice I don't get back any sort of result.
However there were no errors.
It's only when I print the results that actually get to see it.
Now I get the see.
So again the return key word what it's doing is it's adding someone and I'm to here.
So two and four.
And then saving it to this result where they can do stuff with it so that it can print results and if
it wanted to I could then print result plus 10.
So now when I run this I get back 16 again.
That's the key difference between using something like print and something like Return Return is going
to allow you to actually save your results of your function to variables to use later on in your code.
So typically you're pretty much always using a return with functions instead of print.
So keep that in mind this is a really common mistake for beginners to make.
OK we're going to stop here for part one.
Part two of our functions discussion will focus on solving problems with functions.
Also cover some useful operators.
So we'll see you in part two and the very next lecture.